# Motion-Detector
Simple Motion Detection

## News

*31-12-2018*

Till date, the program is capable of detecting motion using Webcam and is capable of adjusting to the environment.
**Updates in line** - 
  - Adjusting to change in Significant Environmental Change.

## Overview

GIPH ->

## How the Program works –

The program launches a webcam and turns the captured resolution into a 90 by 90 pixel resolution capture. The resolution is decided upon the demand of granularity by us to be present in subject’s motion detection by the program. Decreasing the resolution simplifies the complications involved while processing all the calculations. As of now the program classifies any motion into three categories namely None, Slight and Major. The program decides this based on some threshold and that threshold is calculated by the program in the following manner. 

We use the technique of frame-differencing, in which we calculate the difference of the sum of all the pixels in two consecutive frames. Theoretically, the difference should be zero when the device is kept in a motion free environment because the environment captured is the same in both the frames, but due to the digital noise generated by the webcam at the time of frame capture we ought to calibrate a threshold value for any particular task.

For Slight Motion Detection, while a span of 250/FPS seconds the program calculates the mean of the sum of all the pixel values per frame throughout the duration and adds its fifth part to the maximum of the sum of all the pixel values per frame. Five times of the previously calculated quantity is used as the threshold for Major Motion Detection. 

Currently the division and multiplication factor (currently ‘5’) used in calculating the respective thresholds are assigned by human experience but an AI is currently under making that shall soon take over the task.

Another round of calibration is done to calculate the Environmental Change. The device in this duration is expected to be moved to a new place so that the device experiences what it is like to transition from one place to another. The maximum of the sum of all pixels per frame throughout 250/FPS seconds is taken as the threshold for the Detection of Environmental Change.

After the calibration is done successfully, a dialog box opens which displays whatever the webcam sees, and a graph of the difference in sum of all the pixels between two consecutive frames with time. The needle fluctuates according to the motion and a title over the real-time display of webcam capture classifying the motion into None, Slight and Major.

